.TH "BSFILTER" "1" 
.SH "NAME" 
bsfilter \(em bayesian spam filter 
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
.PP 
\fBbsfilter\fR [\fBoptions\fP]  [\fBcommands\fP]  < MAIL 
.PP 
\fBbsfilter\fR [\fBoptions\fP]  [\fBcommands\fP]  MAIL ... 
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
\fBbsfilter\fR filters out spam 
mails. 
.PP 
If commands are specified, bsfilter is in maintenance mode, 
otherwise it is in filtering mode. 
.PP 
If bsfilter reads spam from stdin in filtering mode, exit 
status is 0. It is 1 in case of a clean mail. 
.SH "COMMANDS" 
.IP "\fB\-\-add-clean\fP, \fB-c\fP" 10 
add mails into the clean token database. 
.IP "\fB\-\-add-spam\fP, \fB-s\fP" 10 
add mails into the spam token database. 
.IP "\fB\-\-sub-clean\fP, \fB-C\fP" 10 
subtract mails from the clean token database. 
.IP "\fB\-\-sub-spam\fP, \fB-S\fP" 10 
subtract mails from the spam token database. 
.IP "\fB\-\-update\fP, \fB-u\fP" 10 
update the probability table from clean and spam token 
databases. 
.IP "\fB\-\-export-clean\fP" 10 
export the clean token database. 
.IP "\fB\-\-export-spam\fP" 10 
export the spam token database. 
.IP "\fB\-\-import-clean\fP" 10 
import the clean token database. 
.IP "\fB\-\-import-spam\fP" 10 
import the spam token database. 
.IP "\fB\-\-export-probability\fP" 10 
export the probability database (for debugging purpose). 
.SH "OPTIONS" 
.IP "\fB\-\-homedir \fIdirectory\fR\fP" 10 
specify the name of the bsfilter's home 
directory. 
.IP "" 10 
If this option is not used, a directory specified with 
the environment variable "BSFILTERHOME" is used. 
.IP "" 10 
If the variable "BSFILTERHOME" is not defined, 
".bsfilter" directory under your home is used. 
.IP "" 10 
If the variable "HOME" is not defined, a directory 
which bsfilter is located at is used. 
.IP "\fB\-\-config-file \fIfile\fR\fP" 10 
specify the name of the bsfilter's configuration file 
"bsfilter.conf" in bsfilter's home directory is used by 
default. 
.IP "\fB\-\-max-line \fInumber\fR\fP" 10 
check and/or study the first number of lines default 
is 500. 0 means all. 
.IP "\fB\-\-db \fIsdbm|gdbm|bdb1|bdb|qdbm\fR\fP" 10 
specify the name of database type "sdbm" by default. 
.IP "\fB\-\-jtokenizer \fIbigram|block|mecab|chasen|kakasi\fR\fP" 10 
.IP "\fB-j \fIbigram|block|mecab|chasen|kakasi\fR\fP" 10 
specify algorithm of a tokenizer for Japanese language 
"bigram" by default. 
.IP "\fB\-\-list-clean\fP" 10 
print filename of clean mail. 
.IP "\fB\-\-list-spam\fP" 10 
print filename of spam. 
.IP "\fB\-\-imap\fP" 10 
access IMAP server. 
.IP "\fB\-\-imap-server \fIhostname\fR\fP" 10 
specify hostname of IMAP server. 
.IP "\fB\-\-imap-port \fInumber\fR\fP" 10 
specify port number of IMAP server. default is 
143. 
.IP "\fB\-\-imap-auth \fImethod\fR\fP" 10 
specify authorization method. default is "auto". 
"cram-md5" use "AUTHENTICATE CRAM-MD5" command. 
"login" use "AUTHENTICATE LOGIN" command. 
"loginc" use "LOGIN" command. 
"auto" try "cram-md5", "login" and "loginc" in this order. 
 
.IP "\fB\-\-imap-user \fIname\fR\fP" 10 
specify user name of IMAP server. 
.IP "\fB\-\-imap-password \fIpassword\fR\fP" 10 
specify password of imap-user. 
.IP "\fB\-\-imap-folder-clean \fIfolder\fR\fP" 10 
specify destination folder for clean 
mails. "inbox.clean" for example. 
.IP "\fB\-\-imap-folder-spam \fIfolder\fR\fP" 10 
specify destination folder for spams. "inbox.spam" for 
example. 
.IP "\fB\-\-imap-fetch-unseen\fP" 10 
filter or study mails without SEEN flag. 
.IP "\fB\-\-imap-fetch-unflagged\fP" 10 
filter or study mails without "X-Spam-Flag" 
header. 
.IP "\fB\-\-imap-reset-seen-flag\fP" 10 
reset SEEN flag when bsfilter moves or modifies 
mails. 
.IP "\fB\-\-pop\fP" 10 
work as POP proxy. 
.IP "\fB\-\-pid-file \fIfile\fR\fP" 10 
specify filename for logging process ID of bsfilter 
"bsfilter.pid" in bsfilter's home directory is used by 
default this function is valid when "\-\-pop" is 
specified. 
.IP "\fB\-\-tasktray\fP" 10 
sit in tasktray this is valid with "\-\-pop" on 
VisualuRuby. 
.IP "\fB\-\-pop-server \fIhostname\fR\fP" 10 
specify hostname of POP server. 
.IP "\fB\-\-pop-port \fInumber\fR\fP" 10 
specify port number of POP server. default is 
110. 
.IP "\fB\-\-pop-proxy-if \fIaddress\fR\fP" 10 
specify address of interface which bsfilter listens at 
default is 0.0.0.0 and all interfaces are active. 
.IP "\fB\-\-pop-proxy-port \fInumber\fR\fP" 10 
specify port number which bsfilter listens at. default 
is 10110. 
.IP "\fB\-\-pop-user \fIname\fR\fP" 10 
optional. specify username of POP server. 
.IP "" 10 
bsfilter checks match between value of this options 
and a name which MUA sends. 
.IP "" 10 
in case of mismatch, bsfilter closes sockets. 
.IP "\fB\-\-pop-proxy-set \fIset[,set...]\fR\fP" 10 
specify rules of pop proxy. 
.IP "" 10 
alternative way of pop-server, pop-port, 
pop-proxy-port and pop-user option. 
.IP "" 10 
format of "set" is 
"pop-server:pop-port:[proxy-interface]:proxy-port[:pop-user]". 
.IP "" 10 
If proxy-interface is specified and isn't 0.0.0.0 , 
other interfaces are not used. 
.IP "" 10 
"\-\-pop-proxy-set 192.168.1.1:110::10110" is equivalent 
with "\-\-pop-server 192.168.1.1 \-\-pop-port 110 
\-\-pop-proxy-port 10110". 
.IP "\fB\-\-pop-max-size \fInumber\fR\fP" 10 
When mail is longer than the specified number, the 
mail is not filtered.  When 0 is specified, all mails are 
tested and filtered.  unit is byte. default is 
50000. 
.IP "\fB\-\-ssl\fP" 10 
use POP over SSL with \-\-pop option and use IMAP over SSL 
with \-\-imap option. 
.IP "\fB\-\-ssl-cert \fIfilename|dirname\fR\fP" 10 
specify a filename of a certificate of a trusted CA or a 
name of a directory of certificates. 
.IP "\fB\-\-method \fIg|r|rf\fR\fP" 10 
.IP "\fB-m \fIg|r|rf\fR\fP" 10 
specify filtering method. "rf" by default.  "g" means 
Paul Graham method, "r" means Gary Robinson method, and 
"rf" means Robinson-Fisher method. 
.IP "\fB\-\-spam-cutoff \fInumber\fR\fP" 10 
specify spam-cutoff value.  0.9 by default for Paul 
Graham method.  0.582 by default for Gary Robinson method. 
0.95 by default for Robinson-Fisher method. 
.IP "\fB\-\-auto-update\fP, \fB-a\fP" 10 
recognize mails, add them into clean or spam token database 
and update the probability table. 
.IP "\fB\-\-disable-degeneration\fP, \fB-D\fP" 10 
disable degeneration during probability table 
lookup. 
.IP "\fB\-\-disable-utf-8\fP" 10 
disable utf-8 support. 
.IP "\fB\-\-refer-header \fIheader[,header...]\fR\fP" 10 
refer specified headers of mails. 
.IP "\fB\-\-ignore-header\fP, \fB-H\fP" 10 
ignore headers of mails. 
(it is same as \-\-refer-header "".) 
.IP "\fB\-\-ignore-body\fP, \fB-B\fP" 10 
ignore body of mails, except URL or mail address. 
.IP "\fB\-\-ignore-plain-text-part\fP" 10 
ignore plain text part if html part is included in the mail. 
.IP "\fB\-\-ignore-after-last-atag\fP" 10 
ignore text after last "A" tag. 
.IP "\fB\-\-mark-in-token \fIcharacters\fR\fP" 10 
specify characters which are allowable in a token 
"*'!" by default. 
.IP "\fB\-\-show-process\fP" 10 
show summary of execution. 
.IP "\fB\-\-show-new-token\fP" 10 
show tokens which are newly added into the token 
database. 
.IP "\fB\-\-mbox\fP" 10 
use "unix from" to divide mbox format file. 
.IP "\fB\-\-max-mail \fInumber\fR\fP" 10 
reduce token database when the number of stored mails 
is larger than this one 10000 by default. 
.IP "\fB\-\-min-mail \fInumber\fR\fP" 10 
reduce token database as if this number of mails are 
stored 8000 by default. 
.IP "\fB\-\-pipe\fP" 10 
write a mail to stdout.  this options is invalid when 
"\-\-imap" or "\-\-pop" is specified. 
.IP "\fB\-\-insert-revision\fP" 10 
insert "X-Spam-Revision: bsfilter release..." into a mail. 
.IP "\fB\-\-insert-flag\fP" 10 
insert "X-Spam-Flag: Yes" or "X-Spam-Flag: No" into a 
mail. 
.IP "\fB\-\-insert-probability\fP" 10 
insert "X-Spam-Probability: number" into a mail. 
.IP "\fB\-\-header-prefix \fIstring\fR\fP" 10 
insert "X-specified_string-..." headers, instead of "Spam". 
(it is valid with \-\-insert-flag and/or \-\-insert-probability 
option.) 
.IP "\fB\-\-mark-spam-subject\fP" 10 
insert "[SPAM] " at the beginning of Subject header. 
.IP "\fB\-\-mark-ubject-prefix \fIstring\fR\fP" 10 
insert specified string, instead of "[SPAM] ".  (it is valid 
with \-\-mark-spam-subject option.) 
.IP "\fB\-\-show-db-status\fP" 10 
show numbers of tokens and mails in databases and quit. 
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fP, \fB-h\fP" 10 
show help message. 
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fP, \fB-q\fP" 10 
quiet mode. 
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fP, \fB-v\fP" 10 
verbose mode. 
.IP "\fB\-\-debug\fP, \fB-d\fP" 10 
debug mode. 
.SH "EXAMPLES" 
.PP 
.nf 
% bsfilter \-s ~/Mail/spam/*			## add spam 
% bsfilter \-u \-c ~/Mail/job/* ~/Mail/private/*	## add clean mails and update probability table 
% bsfilter ~/Mail/inbox/1			## show spam probability 
.fi 
.PP 
.nf 
## recipe of procmail 
:0 HB 
* ? bsfilter \-a 
spam/. 
.fi 
.PP 
.PP 
.nf 
## recipe of procmail 
:0 fw 
| bsfilter \-a \-\-pipe \-\-insert-flag \-\-insert-probability 
.fi 
.PP 
.SH "SEE ALSO" 
.PP 
http://bsfilter.org/, 
http://sourceforge.jp/projects/bsfilter/ 
http://exerb.sourceforge.jp/,  
http://www.osk.3web.ne.jp/~nyasu/software/vrproject.html,  
http://www.ruby-lang.org/ 
.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP 
The original manual is in the bsfilter command it self which 
is written by NABEYA Kenichi (upstream author). This manual page 
was transrated from the manual by akira yamada <akira@debian.org> 
for the \fBDebian\fP system (but may be used by others).  Permission 
is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under 
the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 any 
later version published by the Free Software Foundation. 
 
.PP 
On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public 
License can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL. 
 
.\" created by instant / docbook-to-man, Mon 27 Aug 2007, 13:05 
